# parra-bitwatt
<<<<<<< HEAD

##Objective

To create a system that facilitates peer-to-peer transactions for solar-generated power utilising the existing grid infrastructure and Ethereum smart contracts that generate a tradable cryptocurrency.

##Problem

Alice has generated more energy from her solar panels than she requires and wishes to capitalise on this waste. Bob has not generated enough energy from his solar panels for his consumption purposes. The local power company will buy Alice’s power for 6 cents a kilowatt and sell power to Bob for 36 cents a kilowatt. How can Alice sell her power to Bob for a mutually convenient price?

##Solution

Design a peer-to peer market for selling and buying energy to the grid.

##The Introduction of Currency

BitWatts are a cryptographic unit of currency (token) that can be exchanged for power (kWh). BitWatts are generated by smart metres connected to individual homes and issued as a receipt for power: like any other currency it acts as a promise to pay at a future time (it is a store of value, a unit of account and a medium of exchange). This power is a claim on power already submitted to the grid (a pooled resource of power) and can be exchanged for power at any given time. Smart metres facilitate the exchange of power for Bitwatts. Today Bob needs to buy power but has no BitWatts available (and thus no claim on power in the pooled resource). Alice, however, has 10 BitWatts saved up from when she had too much power and sold it to the grid. Bob can buy Alice’s claim on the pooled resource via an exchange where he can buy in whatever currency Alice wants to get paid in (for example AUD or BTC).

So instead he buys Alice’s claim

Bob has BitWatts stored in his digital wallet from when he previously sold excess power to the grid (if Bob didn’t have BitWatts stored up he could buy them for AUD at an online exchange). Today, however, he is in need in need of energy

##SWOT Analysis

Market Mechanism

If power companies buy power off homeowners for 6 cents and sells to homeowners for 36 cents, BitWatts will systematically create a market value for power in this range (assuming that rational homeowners will not sell to peers at below 6 cents per kWh when they can get this rate from the power companies and not buy power from peers for over 36). This will theoretically create a price of power at a mutually beneficial price to peers (for example at 20 cents per kWh). This should also cause the power companies, who no longer have a monopoly on power trading, to buy and sell power at a fairer price to compete with the market i.e. the ‘true’ value for power.
=======
Stakeholders

Commercial and residential with solar already installed
- already in market: transitioning and augmentation
- Benefits: better price, up-scaling, maximising

Willing to install (price has scared them off)
- newcomer: support to join
- Benefits: shortening return on investment, reducing uncertainty

Raising awareness of collective approach
- outside market/unaware: education, resources and contacts
- Benefits: highlighting opportunities, ways to access and support

Businesses
- strata management
- small businesses (existing and new)
- Carbon credit, renewable energy credits etc

Research and development
- sustainable technology research at Western Sydney University
- expand as new technology develops e.g. building-attached PVC - building-integrated PVC

Range of potential roles and responsibilities of Empower Parramatta: solar energy generator, retailer, consultant, supplier, maintenance, facility manger, quality  assurance (compliance and benchmarks)

Potential test sites (to invite on board as part of funding proposal): public housing (already interest from one organisation), schools (will approach sustainability officer contact at Parra council who works with local schools), council buildings (we have a youth centre contact), stadium, clubs, commercial, residential

Benefits of becoming a test-site: i) better price, up-scaling, maximising, ii) shortening return on investment, reducing uncertainty iii) highlighting opportunities, ways to access and support
>>>>>>> 3a5827430e97bd4c4875a992c1ceb2a208f5ffd5
